.TH CSLP 1 "DECEMBER 2012" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.PP
cslp \- An Exact Stochastic Simulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCcslp\fR [options] [\fIinput\-script\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fB\fCcslp\fR provides exact stochastic simulation of molecule reactions as defined in
a script file and outputs the series of events
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC--trackalloc\fR
This allows tracking of object allocations. This isnt terribly useful as
some objects are not released by the underlying gnustep library
.PP
\fB\fC--wall\fR
Treat all configuration file warnings as errors
.PP
\fB\fC--aggregator\fR
The aggregator can aggregate the state changes in the simulation before it is sent to the
writer. Valid options are:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCPassthroughAggregator\fR All state changes are logged
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCHundredMsAggregator\fR At least a hundred ms needs to have passed for a state change to be logged
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCExactHundredMsAggregator\fR Writes the state exactly every hundred milliseconds. Possibly slightly slower than the other aggregator as it has to do more allocations
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCResultOnlyAggregator\fR Writes the last output only
.RE
.PP
\fB\fC--writer\fR
The writer defines how the state changes will be written. Valid options are
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCAssignmentCsvWriter\fR Writes in the (invalid) Csv format specified by the assignment
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCRfcCsvWriter\fR Csv writer that conforms to RFC 4180
.UR http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4180
.UE
.RE
.PP
\fB\fC--logfname\fR
The file name to write the log to. If not specified then the log is not written to a fail.
.PP
\fB\fC--logflevel\fR
The log level for the file log. If \fB\fC--logfname\fR is not set then this is ignored. This should by one of: debug, info, warn, error
.PP
\fB\fC--logstderrlevel\fR
The log level for the stderr log. This should by one of: debug, info, warn, error
.PP
\fB\fC--seed\fR
The seed of the random number generator used to run the simulation. If this is not specified then 
.BR time (NULL) 
is used.
.PP
\fB\fC--sdm\fR
Enables sorting of reactions so that when working out which reaction occurred the ones more likely to occur are checked first
.PP
\fB\fC--ldm\fR
Reactions are searched for using binary search. There is no point combining this with \fB\fC--sdm\fR as the search for reactions is no longer linear .
.PP
\fB\fC--dependency-graph\fR
This only updates the reaction rates that will have change by maintaining a graph of how applying a reaction will effect the rates.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Jacob Essex 
.MT cslp@jacobessex.com
.ME
